wtphm
*****

The **W**\ind **T**\urbine **P**\rognostics and **H**\ealth **M**\anagement library
processes wind turbine events (also called alarms or status) data, as well as
operational SCADA data (the usually 10-minute data coming off of wind turbines).

Turbine alarms often appear in high numbers during fault events, and significant
effort can be involved in processing these alarms in order to find what actually
happened.
This module solves this by grouping similar alarm sequences together into "batches"
of alarms, assigning a high-level "stoppage category" to each batch, and providing
functionality to overlay this onto operational scada data for labelling for
training predictive maintenance algorithms or reliability analysis.

Although there are commercial packages that can perform this task, this library
aims to be an open-source alternative for use by the research community.
It was borne out of my own work for trying to process data for use in my PhD -
hopefully this will allow other researchers to get into analysis quicker.

Broad Functions of Package
==========================

The three main parts of the package are the ``batch`` and ``classification``
modules, as well as the ``clustering`` subpackage.

``batch`` contains the functions for creating the batches of turbine alarms and
assigning a high-level
reason for the stoppage, gleaned from the events and scada data. More information on
this can be found in [1].

``classification`` contains functions for labelling SCADA data based on the
batches, for purposes of classification.

``clustering`` deals with clustering together different similar
alarm sequences, explored in [3]. This part of the library, `wtphm.clustering`
isn't updated as much as the others - development may be needed in some parts.

Information and critiques on some of the issues surrounding the data coming from
wind turbines more generally can be found in [2].

Please raise issues here on GitHub for any issues encountered.

What Data Can I Work With?
==========================
The data manipulated in this library is turbine ``events`` data and ``scada``
data.
It must be in the formats described below.

Event Data
----------

The ``event_data`` is related to any fault or information messages generated by
the turbine. This is instantaneous, and records information like faults that have
occurred, or status messages like low- or no- wind, or turbine shutting down due
to storm winds.

The data must have the following column headers and data:

* ``turbine_num``: The turbine the data applies to
* ``code``: There are a set list of events which can occur on the
  turbine. Each one of these has an event code
* ``description``: Each event code also has an associated description
* ``time_on``: The start time of the event
* ``time_off``: The end time of the event
* ``duration``: The duration of the event (can be calculated from the two above)
* ``stop_cat``: This is a category for the event if it has caused the turbine to
  stop, or else its functional location in the turbine. E.g. if the event is
  related to a pitch fault, it's stop category would be "fault-pitch", or something
  similar.

In addition, there must be a specific event ``code`` which
signifies return to normal operation after any downtime or abnormal operating
period.

SCADA/Operational data
----------------------

The ``scada_data`` is typically recorded in 10-minute intervals and has attributes like
average power output, maximum, minimum and average windspeeds, etc. over the previous
10-minute period.

For the purposes of this library, it must have the following column headers and
data:

* ``turbine_num``: The turbine the data applies to
* ``time``: The 10-minute period the data belongs to
* availability counters: Some of the functions for giving the batches a stop
  category rely on availability counters. These are sometimes stored as part of
  scada data, and sometimes in separate availability data. They count the portion
  of time the turbine was in some mode of operation in each 10-minute period,
  for availability calculations. For example, maintenance time, fault time, etc.
  In order to be used in this library, the availability counters are
  assumed to range between 0 and
  *n* in each period, where *n* is some arbitrary maximum (typically 600, for
  the 600 seconds in the 10-minute period).


User Guide and Usage Examples
=============================
See the examples/wtphm_readme_examples.ipynb notebook!.

Documentation
=============
Documentation can be found `here <https://wtphm.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_. For
a local copy of the docs, see `docs/_build/index.html`_.


References
==========
[1] Leahy, Kevin, et al. "A robust prescriptive framework and performance metric
for diagnosing and predicting wind turbine faults based on SCADA and alarms data
with case study." Energies 11.7 (2018): 1738.

[2] Leahy, Kevin, et al. "Issues with data quality for wind turbine condition
monitoring and reliability analyses." Energies 12.2 (2019): 201.

[3] Leahy, Kevin, et al. "Cluster analysis of wind turbine alarms for
characterising and classifying stoppages." IET Renewable Power Generation 12.10 (2018):
1146-1154.
